# Hospital-Management-System-Database-Project-on-MS-mySQL
Overview: Organizations such as hospitals have to deal with a lot of patients regularly and hence a lot of data. Hence it is very important for a hospital to have a DBMS that easily allows patients to book appointments and allows doctors or administrators to manage patient data. Introduction: Hospital management system is a computer system that helps manage the information related to health care and aids in the job completion of health care providers effectively. They manage the data related to all departments of healthcare. HMS came into the picture of hospital management as early as 1960 and have ever since been evolving and synchronizing with the technologies while modernizing healthcare facilities. In today’s world, the management of healthcare starts from the hands of the patients through their mobile phones and facilitates the needs of the patient. Why is HMS important for a hospital? HMS was introduced to solve the complications coming from managing all the paper works of every patient associated with the various departments of hospitalization with confidentiality. HMS provides the ability to manage all the paperwork in one place, reducing the work of staff in arranging and analyzing the paperwork of the patients. HMS does many works like:  Maintain the medical records of the patient.  Maintain the contact details of the patient.  Keep track of the appointment dates.  Save the insurance information for later reference.
